## New Interfaces for Buddhist Texts

[Sefaria](https://www.sefaria.org) is creating interfaces, apps (like a source sheet builder), and infrastructure (like an API and a structured dataset) for Jewish texts and textual learning.

You can find outputs of our entire database in [Sefaria-Export](https://github.com/Sefaria/Sefaria-Export).

Interested developers should join the [sefaria-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sefaria-dev).

For general discussion questions about the project, please email [hello@sefaria.org](mailto:hello@sefaria.org).

If you find textual problems in our library, please email [corrections@sefaria.org](mailto:corrections@sefaria.org).

You can post bugs or request/discuss features on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/sefaria/Sefaria-Project/issues?direction=desc&page=1&sort=created&state=open). Tackling an issue marked as a "Starter Project" is a good way to sink your teeth into Sefaria.

If you're interested in working on a project you see listed here, please email the [sefaria-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sefaria-dev).


***

### Getting Started
First clone the Sefaria-Project repository to a directory on your computer, then follow the instructions:

*Note: if you are a developer that might want to contribute code to Sefaria, we suggest first making a fork of this repository by clicking the "Fork" button above when logged in to GitHub.*

*Note for macOS users - Install `Homebrew`:*

    /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install.sh)"


There are two methods with which you can run the Sefaria-Project, docker-compose and local install

#### Run with docker-compose
##### 1) Install Docker and Docker Compose

Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/) to install Docker and [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) to install Docker Compose.

##### 2) Run the project
In your terminal run:

    docker-compose up

This will build the project and run it. You should now have all the proper services set up, lets add some texts.

##### 3) Connect to mongo and add texts:
Connect to mongo running on port 27018. We use 27018 instead of the standard port 27017 to avoid conflicts with any mongo instance you may already have running.

Follow instructions in section 8 below to restore the mongo dump.


##### 4) Update your local settings file:
Copy the local settings file:

    cp sefaria/local_settings_example.py sefaria/local_settings.py

Replace the following values:

    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
            'NAME': 'sefaria',
            'USER': 'admin',
            'PASSWORD': 'admin',
            'HOST': 'postgres',
            'PORT': '',
        }
    }


    MONGO_HOST = "db"

Optionally, you can replace the cache values as well:
    
    MULTISERVER_REDIS_SERVER = "cache"
    REDIS_HOST = "cache"

and the respective values in CACHES


##### 5) Connect to the django container and run migrations:
In a new terminal window run:

    docker exec -it sefaria-project_web_1 bash

This will connect you to the django container. Now run:
    
    python manage.py migrate

##### 6) Run webpack:
In a new terminal window run:

    docker exec -it sefaria-project-node-1 bash

This will connect you to the django container. Now run:
    
        npm run build-client

or 
    
        npm run watch-client


##### 7) Visit the site:
In your browser go to http://localhost:8000

If the server isn't running, you may need to run `docker-compose up` again.


#### Run locally
#### 1) Install Python 3.7

*We Recommend using the latest Python 3.7 as opposed to later versions of Python (esp 3.10 and up) since it has been known to cause some compatibility issues. These are solvable, but for an easier install experience, we currently recommend 3.7*

###### Linux and macOS
Most UNIX systems come with a python interpreter pre-installed. However, this is generally still Python 2. The recommended way to get Python 3, and not mess up any software the OS is dependent on, is by using Pyenv. You can use the instructions [here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation) and also [here](https://opensource.com/article/19/5/python-3-default-mac#what-we-should-do).

In a later step, we can configure virtual environments to work with Pyenv so you can completely isolate your Sefaria stack. 

###### Windows:
The Pyenv repository above also has recommendations for Windows.

In order to just plain install Python:
- Read the [Official Python documentation on Windows](https://docs.python.org/3.7/using/windows.html) 
- Go to the [Python Download Page](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-375/) and download and install Python.
- Add the python directory to your OS' PATH variable if the installer has not done so. 

#### 2) Install virtualenv (Recommended, but optional):
If you work on many Python projects, you may want to keep Sefaria's python installation separate using Virtualenv.  If you're happy having Sefaria requirements in your main Python installation, skip this step.

##### Use With Pyenv (Recommended)
You can use virtualenv functionality while also using Pyenv; this allows you to further isolate your code and requirements from other projects. 

###### Unix & Windows
Instructions [here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv#installing-as-a-pyenv-plugin).
###### macOS:
Instructions [here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv#installing-with-homebrew-for-macos-users). 

Create [a pyenv virtualenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv#using-pyenv-virtualenv-with-pyenv). 

In your Sefaria directory, run `pyenv local [venv-name]`. This will create a `.python-version` and write the version name provided to the file (e.g. `3.7.5/envs/sefaria-venv`). This should serve to activate the virtualenv whenever you are in the Sefaria directory. 

*Note: If, after following the installation and configuration instructions, running `python -V` still displays the system version, you may have to manually add the shims directory to your path.* If that does not correct the issue, you should check your bash init file (.zshrc, .bashrc, or the like) for the line `eval "$(pyenv init -)"` (not inside an if statement) and change it to `eval "$(pyenv init --path)"` and restart the shell.

*Note: If you are using an IDE like PyCharm, you can (and should) configure the interpreter options on your Sefaria-Project to point to the python executable of this virtualenv (e.g. `~/.pyenv/versions/3.7.5/envs/sefaria-venv/bin/python3.7`)*

##### Classic virtualenv
Install [virtualenv](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv), then enter these commands:

*Note: You may need to install Pip (see below) first in order to install virtualenv*

*Note: You can perform this step from anywhere in your command line, but it might be easier and tidier to run this step from the root of your project directory that you just cloned. e.g `~/web-projects/Sefaria-Project $`*

    virtualenv venv --distribute
    source venv/bin/activate

Now you should see `(venv)` in front of your command prompt. The second command sets your shell to use the Python virtual environment that you've just created. This is something that you have to run every time you open a new shell and want to run the Sefaria demo. You can always tell if you're in the virtual environment by checking if `(venv)` is at the beginning of your command prompt. 
    
#### 3) Pip: 
If you used pyenv, Pip should be available via the pyenv version of Python. 
###### Unix 
If you don't already have it in your Python installation, install [Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/). Then use it to install the required Python packages.

###### Windows 
Use instructions [here](http://www.tylerbutler.com/2012/05/how-to-install-python-pip-and-virtualenv-on-windows-with-powershell/) and then make sure that the scripts subfolder of the python installation directory is also in PATH.


*Note: this step (and **most** of the following command line instructions) must be run from the Sefaria-Project root directory*

Please *temporarily* comment out the line `psycopg2==2.8.6` in `requirements.txt.` and then run:

	pip install -r requirements.txt

If you are *not* using virtualenv, you may have to run it with sudo: `sudo pip install -r requirements.txt`

*Note: You'll probably need to install the Python development libraries as well:*

###### On Debian systems: 

    sudo apt-get install python-dev python3-dev libpq-dev

###### On Fedora systems:

    sudo dnf install python2-devel libpq-devel


*Note: If you see an error that `pg_config executable not found`, you need to install PostgreSQL. If on macOS you see an error while `Building wheel for psycopg2` about `linker command failed with exit code 1`, you may need to add the path to OpenSSL*

```
export LDFLAGS="-L/usr/local/opt/openssl/lib"
export CPPFLAGS="-I/usr/local/opt/openssl/include"
```

After installing the Python development libraries or other dependencies, run `pip install -r requirements.txt` again. 


#### 4) Install gettext

`gettext` is a GNU utility that Django uses to manage localizations.

###### On macOS:

    brew install gettext
    
    
On some macOS systems `gettext` will still not run after installation and `django manage.py makemessages` will fail. In such a case, one easy solution is to add (replace x's with your gettext version number) to your .bashrc(or its equivalent on your system):
    
    export TEMP_PATH=$PATH
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/Cellar/gettext/0.xx.x/bin
    

###### On Debian systems

    sudo apt-get install gettext

#### 5) Create a local settings file:

*Note: this step must be run from the Sefaria-Project root directory*

    cd sefaria
    cp local_settings_example.py local_settings.py
    vim local_settings.py
    
Replace the placeholder values with those matching your environment. For the most part, you should only have to specify values in the top part of the file where it directs you to change the given values.

Note: Among the placeholder values that need to be replaced, set the `DATABASES` default `NAME` field to a path (including a file name) where Django can create a sqlite database. Using `/path/to/Sefaria-Project/db.sqlite` is sufficient, as we git-ignore all `.sqlite` files.

You can name your local database (`sefaria` will be the default created by `mongorestore` below). You can leave `SEFARIA_DB_USER` ad `SEFARIA_DB_PASSWORD` blank if you don't need to run authentication on Mongo.

#### 6) Create a log directory:
Create a directory called `log` under the project folder. To do this, run `mkdir log` from the project's root directory.
Make sure that the server user has write access to it by using a command such as `chmod 777 log`.

#### 7) Get Mongo running:

If you don't already have it, [install MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/administration/install-community/). Our current data dump requires MongoDB version 4.4 or later. After installing Mongo according to the instructions, you should have a mongo service automatically running in the background. 

Otherwise, run the mongo daemon with:

    mongod
    
(Only use sudo if necessary, as it may result in a locked socket file being created that may prevent mongo from running later on).
    
Or use your os service manager to have it start on startup.

Mongo usually sets all the correct paths for itself to run properly nowadays, but see [here](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/manage-mongodb-processes/#start-mongod-processes) for details on setting a specific path for it to store data in.


#### 8) Put some texts in your database:

MongoDB dumps of our database are available to download. 

The recommended dump (which is a more manageable size) is available [here](https://storage.googleapis.com/sefaria-mongo-backup/dump_small.tar.gz). 

A complete dump is also available [here](https://storage.googleapis.com/sefaria-mongo-backup/dump.tar.gz). The complete dump includes the `history` collections, which contains a complete revision history of every text in our library. For many applications, this data is not relevant. We recommend using the smaller dump unless you're specifically interested in texts revision history within Sefaria.

Unzip the file and extract the `dump` folder. If you don't have an app for unzipping, this can be done from Command Prompt by navigating to the folder containing the download and using `tar -xf dump.tar.gz` or `tar -xf dump_small.tar.gz` (depending on which dump you downloaded).

This `dump` must be restored as a MongoDB database. 

From MongoDB version 4.4, mongorestore comes separately from the MongoDB server, so if you don't already have it, you'll also need to download and unzip the [Database Tools](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/database-tools?tck=docs_databasetools). You may then need to add its \bin\ directory to your PATH environment variables.

Once you have the unzipped `dump`; from the folder which contains `dump`, run:

    mongorestore --drop

This will create (or overwrite) a mongo database called `sefaria`.

If you used the recommended dump, `dump_small.tar.gz`, create an empty collection inside the `sefaria` database called `history`. This can be done using the mongo client shell or a GUI you have installed, such as MongoDB Compass.

#### 9) Set up Django's local server

Sefaria is using Google's reCAPTCHA to verify the user is not a bot. For a deployment, you should register and use your own reCAPTCHA keys (https://pypi.org/project/django-recaptcha/#installation).
For local development, the default test keys would suffice. The warning can be suppressed by uncommenting the following in the local_settings.py file:

    SILENCED_SYSTEM_CHECKS = ['captcha.recaptcha_test_key_error']

`manage.py` is used to run and manage the local server. It is located in the root directory of the `Sefaria-Project` codebase. 

Django auth features run on a separate database. To init this database and set up Django's auth system, switch to the root directory of the `Sefaria-Project` code base, and run (from the project root):

    python manage.py migrate
    

#### 10) Install Node:

*Note: Older versions of `Node` and `npm` ran into a file name length limit on Windows OS. This problem should be mitigated in newer versions on Windows 10.*

Node is now required to run the site. Even if you choose to have js run only on the client, we are also using [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) to bundle our javascript. 

Instaling Node and npm from the main installers on Node's homepage may cause permission issues. For that reason, it is recommended to use one of the alternative methods (with a preference for a version manager like nvm) listed [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

###### Debian, Ubuntu, and Linux Mint 
You are better off using `apt-get nodejs` or following the instructions [here](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions/blob/master/README.md). They will install both Node and npm. 

###### macOS
use `brew install node` or [`nvm`](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#nvm)


Now download the required Javascript libraries and install some global tools for development with the `setup` script (from the project root).

    npm install
    npm run setup
    
If the second command fails, you may have to install using `sudo npm run setup`.

    
#### Run Webpack

To get the site running, you need to bundle the javascript with Webpack. Run:

    npm run build-client
    
to bundle once. To watch the javascript for changes and automatically rebuild, run:

    npm run watch-client

    
#### Server-side rendering with Node:

Sefaria uses React.js. To render HTML server-side, we use a Node.js server. For development, the site is fully functional without server-side rendering. For deploying in a production environment, however, server-side HTML is very important for bots and SEO. 

##### Install Redis

To use server-side rendering, you must also install Redis Cache. `brew install redis` or `sudo apt-get install redis`.

To run redis: `redis-server`. On macOS: `brew services start redis`


##### Configure Django and Node to use Redis as a shared datastore

**Django**

Update your `local_settings.py` file and replace the `CACHES` variable with the `CACHES` variable meant for server-side rendering, commented out in `local_settings_example.py`.

Also, make sure the following are set: 
```
SESSION_CACHE_ALIAS = "default" #declares where Django's session engine will store data
USER_AGENTS_CACHE = 'default' #declares where the Django user agent middleware will store data (cannot be JSON encoded!)
SHARED_DATA_CACHE_ALIAS = 'shared' #Tells the application where to store data placed in cache by `sefaria.system.cache` shared-cache functions

USE_NODE = True
NODE_HOST = "http://localhost:3000" #Or whatever host and port you set Node up to listen on

```


**Node**

The following environment variables, defined in `./node/local_settings.js`, can be set to configure the node instance:

| Env Var | Default | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `NODEJS_PORT` | `3000` | The port to be used by the NodeJs service |
| `DEBUG` | `false` | Determines whether the NodeJs service should run in debug mode | 
| `REDIS_HOST` | `127.0.0.1` | The Redis instance to point Node to when running |
| `REDIS_PORT` | `6379` | The Default port Redis listens on | 


These variables can be set via command line explicitly or set up to be defined when your machine's shell runs or set up in your IDE settings for running the node server. 

For development, you can run the Node server using nodemon with:

    npm start
    

To run webpack with server-side rendering, use:

    npm run build
    
or

    npm run watch
    
#### 11) Run the development server:

    python manage.py runserver

You can also make it publicly available by specifying 0.0.0.0 for the host:

    python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000    

## Command Line Interface

The shell script `cli` will invoke a python interpreter with the core models loaded, and can be used as a standalone interface to texts or for testing.

    $ ./cli
    >>> p = LinkSet(Ref("Genesis 13"))
    >>> p.count()
    226

## Thanks

We're grateful to the following organizations for providing us with donated services:

- [Google Apps for Work](https://apps.google.com/)
- [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)
- [Slack](https://slack.com)


## License

[GPL](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html)


